## Introduction
Deep nonnegative matrix factorization (DNMF) is a powerful tool for feature extraction, and promoting the sparsity of the factor matrices in DNMF can improve both the quality of extracted features and model interpretability. However, most existing DNMF methods promote the sparsity of factor matrices by individually evaluating the importance of each element in factor matrices and pruning unimportant elements (e.g., via the $\ell_1$-norm). This element-wise sparsity fails to capture the interactions and dependencies between different features and neglects the inherent structure of features, impairing the quality of extracted features and interpretability.  To overcome this drawback, we propose a novel structured-sparse and graph-regularized deep nonnegative matrix factorization with $\ell_{2,1}$-norm regularization ($\ell_{2,1}$-SSGDNMF) method. Our method employs the $\ell_{2,1}$-norm to explicitly impose the group sparsity on factor matrices, which enables entire feature groups to be selected or discarded and effectively captures feature interactions and dependencies, thereby enhancing the feature extraction capability and interpretability.  Additionally, $\ell_{2,1}$-SSGDNMF employs graph regularization to preserve the geometric structure information of data. To solve $\ell_{2,1}$-SSGDNMF, we propose an algorithm named the Alternating Proximal Linearized (APL) algorithm, which provides an efficient and practical convergent scheme for solving $\ell_{2,1}$-SSGDNMF.  Furthermore, we prove that the sequence generated by our algorithm is globally convergent to a critical point and analyze the per-iteration complexity of our algorithm. Experimental results on six real-world benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms several state-of-the-art methods for clustering. 

This package contains code for the $\ell_{2,1}$-SSGDNMF problem in the paper[<sup>1</sup>](#refer-id). 

## Matlab code
A toy example explains how to use this function. For "SSGDNMF", run the function '[main_Run_me.m](SSGDNMF/main_Run_me.m)'. 


## Data
This code has built-in some data mentioned in our paper[<sup>1</sup>](#refer-id), and the rest of the data can be downloaded from the mentioned public website. 



## Reference
<div id="refer-id"></div>
[1] W. Yang, "Structured Sparse Deep Nonnegative Matrix Factorization with $\ell_{2,1}$-norm and Graph Regularization for Clustering," 2026 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN). 
